# Greentech-manufacturing
Evaluating Production Bottlenecks Through Downtime Analysis
# How To Use
The GreentechQuery.sql file contains all the query for this project and the dataset for the project is the .bak file which was injected into the SSMS by restoring the database. 
# Methodology
## Data Cleaning and Transformation
After injecting the data, the tables in the database were all assessed to get a better understanding of the data structure. The data contained 4 tables: ‘downtime_factors’, ‘line_downtime’, ‘line_productivity_batches’, and ‘products.’ The downtime_factors table has 13 different factors that could cause a downtime, these factors also included operator error. The line_downtime table consists of information about the number of minutes of each factor that contributes to the downtime in a particular batch and where a particular factor does not contribute to a downtime in that batch, it is recorded as null. There are 282 batches in the dataset where all factors resulting in downtime are null values indicating that these batches had no downtime. The line_productivity_batches table links to the other tables with the foreign keys: Product_ID and Batch_ID, and it also gives insight into how long a batch of production takes. The Date column and date in the Start_Time column are the same when compared therefore one of them might be dropped. The product table contains information about the product the company produces, there are 4 of them: Ecowash Liquid Detergent, Biowipe Cleaning Sheets, Greenfoam Hand Soap, and Repack Recycled Packaging Films. To handle the null values in the line_downtime table, a new table ‘downtime’ was created using the View function and unpivoting the time in Minutes for each factor to allow for easy aggregation during analysis. Another table was also created from the line_productivity_batches table, this table named ‘batch_production’ had additional columns ‘Actual_Duration’ created using DateDiff function between the start time and end time, and ‘Extra_time_hr’ created by subtracting the planned_min_batch_hours from Actual_Duration. Upon validation, accounted delay in minutes given in the dataset and the calculated extra time in hours were equal. 
## Analysis
The downtime key factors were analysed by aggregating the Minutes and batch Id using Sum and Count function respectively. Top 5 downtime factors ranked by the frequency of batches they affected are Cleaning/Sanitation cycle, Raw material shortage, Scheduling/Coordination delay, Machine breakdown, and Safety lockout/ Emergency Stop. Top 5 downtime factors ranked by the accumulated delay in minutes that they caused across batches are Cleaning/Sanitation cycle, Scheduling/coordination Delay, Raw material shortage, Quality inspection Hold, and Other. Further analysis shows that operator error had lesser impact than non-operator error in terms of both the frequency of the batches affected and the accumulated delay in minutes. Scheduling/coordination Delay contributed the most to the accumulated delay in minutes caused by operator error type followed by Safety Lockout/Emergency Stop. For the non-operator error type, Cleaning/Sanitation cycle contributed the most to the accumulated delay in minutes, followed by Raw material shortage, and Quality inspection hold.
